JavaTM 2, Standard Edition (J2SETM) Specification ("Specification")
Version: 1.4
Status: FCS
Release: February 13, 2002

Copyright 2002 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
901 San Antonio Road, Palo Alto, California 94303, U.S.A.
All rights reserved.

NOTICE

The Specification is protected by copyright and the information
described therein may be protected by one or more U.S. patents, foreign
patents, or pending applications.  Except as provided under the
following license, no part of the Specification may be reproduced in any
form by any means without the prior written authorization of Sun
Microsystems, Inc. ("Sun") and its licensors, if any.  Any use of the
Specification and the information described therein will be governed by
the terms and conditions of this license and the Export Control
Guidelines as set forth in the Terms of Use on Sun's website.  By
viewing, downloading or otherwise copying the Specification, you agree
that you have read, understood, and will comply with all of the terms
and conditions set forth herein.

Sun hereby grants you a fully-paid, non-exclusive, non-transferable,
worldwide, limited license (without the right to sublicense), under
Sun's intellectual property rights that are essential to practice the
Specification, to internally practice the Specification for the purpose
of designing and developing your Java applets and applications intended
to run on the Java platform or creating a clean room implementation of
the Specification that: (i) includes a complete implementation of the
current version of the Specification, without subsetting or
supersetting; (ii) implements all of the interfaces and functionality of
the Specification without subsetting or supersetting; (iii) includes a
complete implementation of any optional components (as defined by the
Specification) which you choose to implement, without subsetting or
supersetting; (iv) implements all of the interfaces and functionality of
such optional components, without subsetting or supersetting; (v) does
not add any additional packages, classes or interfaces to the "java.*"
or "javax.*" packages or subpackages or other packages defined by the
Specification; (vi) satisfies all testing requirements available from
Sun relating to the most recently published version of the Specification
six (6) months prior to any release of the clean room implementation or
upgrade thereto; (vii) does not derive from any Sun source code or
binary code materials; and (viii) does not include any Sun source code
or binary code materials without an appropriate and separate license
from Sun. The Specification contains the proprietary information of Sun
and may only be used in accordance with the license terms set forth
herein. This license will terminate immediately without notice from Sun
if you fail to comply with any provision of this license.  Upon
termination or expiration of this license, you must cease use of or
destroy the Specification.

TRADEMARKS

No right, title, or interest in or to any trademarks, service marks, or
trade names of Sun or Sun's licensors is granted hereunder.  Sun, Sun
Microsystems, the Sun logo, Java, J2SE, and the Java Coffee Cup Logo are
trademarks or registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. in the
U.S. and other countries.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THE SPECIFICATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS".  SUN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR
WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
NON-INFRINGEMENT THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE SPECIFICATION ARE SUITABLE FOR
ANY PURPOSE OR THAT ANY PRACTICE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL
NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADE SECRETS OR OTHER
RIGHTS.  This document does not represent any commitment to release or
implement any portion of the Specification in any product.

THE SPECIFICATION COULD INCLUDE TECHNICAL INACCURACIES OR TYPOGRAPHICAL
ERRORS.  CHANGES ARE PERIODICALLY ADDED TO THE INFORMATION THEREIN;
THESE CHANGES WILL BE INCORPORATED INTO NEW VERSIONS OF THE
SPECIFICATION, IF ANY.  SUN MAY MAKE IMPROVEMENTS AND/OR CHANGES TO THE
PRODUCT(S) AND/OR THE PROGRAM(S) DESCRIBED IN THE SPECIFICATION AT ANY
TIME.  Any use of such changes in the Specification will be governed by
the then-current license for the applicable version of the
Specification.

LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL SUN OR ITS
LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST
REVENUE, PROFITS OR DATA, OR FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED AND REGARDLESS OF THE
THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO ANY FURNISHING,
PRACTICING, MODIFYING OR ANY USE OF THE SPECIFICATION, EVEN IF SUN
AND/OR ITS LICENSORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

You will indemnify, hold harmless, and defend Sun and its licensors from
any claims arising or resulting from: (i) your use of the Specification;
(ii) the use or distribution of your Java application, applet and/or
clean room implementation; and/or (iii) any claims that later versions
or releases of any Specification furnished to you are incompatible with
the Specification provided to you under this license.

RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND

U.S. Government: If this Specification is being acquired by or on behalf
of the U.S. Government or by a U.S. Government prime contractor or
subcontractor (at any tier), then the Government's rights in the
Software and accompanying documentation shall be only as set forth in
this license; this is in accordance with 48 C.F.R. 227.7201 through
227.7202-4 (for Department of Defense (DoD) acquisitions) and with 48
C.F.R. 2.101 and 12.212 (for non-DoD acquisitions).

REPORT

You may wish to report any ambiguities, inconsistencies or inaccuracies
you may find in connection with your use of the Specification
("Feedback"). To the extent that you provide Sun with any Feedback, you
hereby: (i) agree that such Feedback is provided on a non-proprietary
and non-confidential basis, and (ii) grant Sun a perpetual,
non-exclusive, worldwide, fully paid-up, irrevocable license, with the
right to sublicense through multiple levels of sublicensees, to
incorporate, disclose, and use without limitation the Feedback for any
purpose related to the Specification and future versions,
implementations, and test suites thereof.

(LFI#111131/Form ID#011801)
